now let's turn to the Middle East where
Hamas says it sent new ideas to qari and
Egyptian mediators aimed at ending
nearly nine months of war in Gaza with
Israel Israel confirmed its evaluating
what it described as Hamas comments on a
ceasefire and hostage deal meanwhile the
Israeli military says it's killed a
commander of Hezbollah in Lebanon in an
air strike these images were sent to us
by the news agency AFP which says that
they were posted online at that they
show the after Marth of the strike
Muhammad niman NASA is one of the most
senior Hezbollah figures to have been
killed in nearly 9 months of crossborder
clashes meanwhile Israel has also
approved plans for what is being
described as the biggest potential
expansion of settlements in the occupied
West Bank in more than three decades
Israeli officials have not publicly
commented on the latest seizure of 12.7
square kmers of land which comes amid
heightened tensions with Palestinians
because of the Gaza War well earlier our
Middle East correspondent yoland Nell
told us what more more about the deal
well this has come after weeks of very
little public diplomacy um Hamas saying
that it gave its response to Kat and
Egyptian mediators it's saying there's
um the Turkish uh involvement now in
this as well um and it says it's
responded in a positive spirit to the
deal that's on the table that's
basically the three-phase plan that was
outlined by President Biden back on the
31st of May that the US has been uh
pushing for very quickly we had a a
response from the Israeli Prime
Minister's office acknowledging that it
had got those Hamas comments um and
along with the mosad intelligence
service which is really leading the
negotiations um those were being looked
at they were being evaluated and in the
Israeli media this morning um there are
some guardedly optimistic comments with
um well-informed sources being quoted as
saying that there is something here to
work with so potentially some movement
but surely this this concept of
expanding the settlements in the West
Bank that'll take it a step back won't
it I mean certainly that will be seen as
being a provocative uh move by Hamas um
but when you look at what's been
happening um on the ground in Gaza I
mean really the key demands of Hamas the
main sticking points that we've seen
when it comes to trying to get a new
ceasefire deal that will also see the
release of the remaining 120 hostages uh
believed to be held in Gaza some of
those uh now said to be dead um what's
really the main sticking point Hamas is
demanding that it wants a full end to
the war as part of any deal it wants a
full withdrawal of Israeli troops from
the Gaza Strip um and then Israel has
been saying that as much as it's ready
to come up with a truce to release its
hostages it wants to be able to continue
uh fighting on in Gaza to continue the
war until it has destroyed hamas's
governing capabilities and its military
capabilities there so that the ceasefire
and hostage release deal um really is
very much about what's happening in the
Gaza Strip but what's happening in the
West Bank there have been these repeated
warnings that that could open up a new
uh front uh in the war if the situation
uh in the West Bank deteriorates further
and also of course as you were
referencing before um this real concern
Le internationally now that there could
be a much more uh dangerous war that
develops between Israel and the powerful
Lebanese armed group Hezbollah in
Lebanon yes and just on that just tell
us more about what we know about the the
death of this leader Muhammad niman NASA
your
land well he's the latest um quite
senior figure to be killed um and it has
been over the last few weeks that we
have seen a real intensification in the
barrages of rocket the numbers of attack
drones are being sent across the border
uh by Hezbollah and Israel responding
with retaliatory strikes including going
after um some you know Hezbollah
Fighters but also some more senior
figures within the group there have been
these attempts we've heard about the the
US um Envoy who's come to the region
trying to add diplomatic efforts in the
past weeks talking now to the French
also about trying to calm things down
diplomatically what Israel is really
demanding is that Hezbollah should be
pushed back uh from uh the Border uh its
border with Lebanon that there should
ultimately be some kind of deal to
decide uh on the actual final border
between the two countries as well and
what Israel Le wants is for tens of
thousands of its citizens to be allowed
to go back to their homes they've really
been uh displaced by this fighting that
started on the 7th of October um as the
war in Gaza began with Hezbollah saying
specifically that it was trying to draw
away uh is isi military resources uh
from the war in Gaza that that was its
way of supporting its Ally there Hamas
you land n there live talking to me from
Jerusalem around the world and